Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So let's cover a new tech trend called responsive design.
Responsive design is something that is a very, very big deal for
front-end developers and designers, and it's also a huge headache.
Remember back in the good old days when there was just one iPhone size,
and laptops really only came in one, two, or three different sizes?
Yes, indeed, those were the days for many reasons, including it was a lot easier
for designers to make websites because they only had
to make them look good on a handful of different resolution sizes.
But nowadays, what's the actual reality?
Well, today, there has been an explosion in different screen sizes.
The iPhone, as opposed to being one, I think it's four or five different sizes now.
iPads, for instance, come in three different sizes, not just one.
Laptop and desktop computers also are being made in different ways,
and Android has always been pretty fragmented.
They used to have something like 50 different
resolutions, but now they have well over 100.
Ok, so how do you as a developer and a designer make a site that looks good
no matter what screen it's on, if it's on a screen this big, or just huge?
Now, it used to be the case that if you wanted your website to look good
on all resolutions, what you did is you just gave your browser
separate instructions depending on what screen was loading it.
Now, that still often is what some people do,
but the better way of tackling that is a new technique called responsive design.
The reason why this is called responsive design is that you are making designs and code
that detects the size of the screen that's viewing it,
and it automatically stretches or contracts to fit the screen.
So instead of making hundreds of set in stone,
absolute different variations for different screens,
you make one responsive one that can kind of work on its own.
Now, that is a key distinction about responsive design that a lot of people miss.
A lot of people think when you design something responsively,
it just means that internally it has a lot of different versions of itself
and it can just fit the top 20 use cases, but in reality it means it's designed
from the very beginning of the process to be able to expand or contract.
Now, doing this is not easy, and you have make a lot of hard choices.
You have to decide what gets displayed on smaller resolutions,
you have to decide whether or not you're going to lower the quality of your images
so that mobile apps that have slower connections can download them more easily.
It means often dropping entire pieces of functionality from your site
because smaller resolutions just can't handle it,
and therefore the user experience suffers.
Generally you can tell whether or not a site has been responsively designed
based off of how it uses white space.
Typically, responsive design, you're going to see a website that has
a lot of padding on the sides, and a lot of space in between the individual elements.
The reason they do that is just because, for their own sanity, it makes it a lot easier
if it has to contract or expand, it's a lot easier than if you have lots of different things
in one tiny little area, they'd have to grow into each other,
they'd bump into each other, you'd have a lot of issues.
People who are doing responsive designs have to use the concept of floating a lot.
Floating just means that when you make the CSS, which, remember,
CSS is what determines where on the page an element,
image, text is located, you have kind of two options.
One is you can tell the browser all of the time it's right here, I can give you
almost like GPS coordinates, saying on the X it's here, on the Y it's here.
The problem obviously with that is that when
smaller resolutions pick that up, where does it display?
Often times it gets displayed in a very inconvenient place,
so instead, we have to do things like floating, which means that an element,
its location is not absolute, it's based on where the other elements on the page are.
Responsive design in general is kind of the de facto,
I mean, you have to do it now, and it's a huge headache,
because it's an enormous amount of bug testing.
Every time you make a site, it's like, "Oh great, it looks good on iPad 1 and iPhone 5,
but iPhone 6 Plus, oh, it's terrible, you can't even read the header, it makes no sense."
Also, take into consideration that there's five major browsers,
and they all interpret these things differently,
so you have to deal with that on top of the fact
that they're going to be in different resolutions.
Now, if you're going to learn front-end design, unfortunately
you're just going to have to learn responsive design.
It's pretty imperative, we've even gotten to the point where
Google will de-rank your site if it's not optimized for different and common resolutions.
In other words, if you have a website, and it doesn't have a mobile version,
as in like a small version design for itself, and it doesn't respond in a responsive way,
you actually get dinged for that and get less traffic,
because Google doesn't want to send people to websites
that just don't work on mobile phones.
All right guys, that's responsive design - kind of a big deal,
you're going to run into it, so now you have a decent idea of what it is.
See you in the next lecture!